docs/cli.md, before:

[![Analytics](https://ga-beacon.appspot.com/UA-120606268-2/github/berlioz/docs/cli)](https://github.com/igrigorik/ga-beacon)

# Command Line Interface


## build


Builds Docker images for current project.

Should be used from the root directory of the project. Can be used to build images for one or multiple clusters.

The tool will be searching for service definitions in **Berliozfile** files within the current directory. It will then build **Dockerfile** files in the same directory.

```
cluster_one/
    Berliozfile        # Definition of the cluster_one
    service_one/
        Berliozfile    # Definition of the service_one
        Dockerfile
    service_two/
        Berliozfile    # Definition of the service_two
        Dockerfile
```

## change-password


Initiates Berlioz account password reset.

## cluster list


Outputs the list of cluster definitions.

Those are the clusters published using [push](#push) command. Please note that the output of this command does not display clusters that are currently deployed. Refer to [deployment cluster list](#deployment-cluster-list) for see deployed clusters.

## deployment cluster definitions


Outputs the list of deployed clusters.

## deployment clusters


Outputs the list of deployed clusters.

## deployment create


Creates a new deployment definition.

After creating the deployment definition you should use [push](#push) command to publish the cluster, and [run](#run) command to deploy.

Prior to creating a deployment definition, a cloud provider should be linked using [provider create](#provider-create) command.

## deployment delete


Deletes an existing deployment definition.

All running clusters for this definition will be undeployed.

## deployment list


Outputs the list of deployment definitions.

## deployment versions


Outputs the deployment versions.

The result of this command can be used to downgrade/upgrade to a particular version using [run](#run) command.

## endpoint


Outputs publicly exposed service endpoint.

## endpoints


Outputs publicly exposed service endpoints in a tabular format.

## kubectl connect


Configure kubectl to current kubernetes cluster.

## kubectl drain


Changes Kubernetes cluster default node pool size to zero.

## kubectl resize


Changes Kubernetes cluster default node pool size.

## local build-run


Builds and runs the services on a local workstation

This command should be called from the project root directory. This command literally combines [build](#build), [local push](#local-push) and [local run](#local-run) commands.

## local endpoints


Outputs publicly exposed endpoints for local deployment

## local get-configs


Displays dynamic local deployment configuration.

## local invalidate


Restarts stopped docker containers.

## local provider aws activate


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider aws clear


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider aws set


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider gcp activate


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider gcp clear


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider gcp set


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider validate


Validates local deployment cloud account.

## local push


Builds and pushes the images to local workstation store.

Executes the [build](#build) command and once the build is complete, pushes the images to the local workstation store. It is important to note that this command does not deploy the cluster locally yet. To deploy the cluster use the [local run](#local-run) command.

Just like with the [build](#build) command, this command should be called from the project root directory.

## local push-run


Builds and runs the services on a local workstation

This command should be called from the project root directory. This command literally combines [build](#build), [local push](#local-push) and [local run](#local-run) commands.

## local run


Run the cluster on a local workstation.

This command runs locally published clusters on a local workstation.

Optionally, a single cluster can be specified to run specified cluster only.

## local scale get


Returns configured number of service instances to deploy on a local workstation.

## local scale set


Sets the number of running instances for a service on a local workstation.

## local stop


Terminates running clusters on a local workstation.

Optionally, a single cluster can be specified to terminate a specified cluster only.

## login


Logs in to Berlioz account.

If you don't already have a Berlioz account refer to [signup](#signup) command to create one.

## logout


Logs out from Berlioz account.

## output-definitions


Outputs Berlioz definitions in current project.

This command displays the contents of "Berliozfile" files in a tabular format.

Should be used from the root directory of the project.

## output-diagram


Renders Berlioz definition diagram

This command displays the contents of "Berliozfile" files in a graphical format.

Should be used from the root directory of the project.

Please not that the tool uses PlantUML and GraphViz for rendering. PlantUML is already packaged with Berlioz. For GraphViz installation please refer to https://graphviz.gitlab.io/download/

## provider create aws


Links cloud provider account to Berlioz.

You can link as many AWS accounts as needed.

Follow these steps to obtain "key" and "secret": 
 1. Login to AWS Account https://console.aws.amazon.com/console/home 
 2. Navigate to **IAM** (i.e. Identity and Access Management) 
 3. Select **Users** Menu. 
 4. Select the admin user or create a new one. 
 5. Select **Security credentials** tab. 
 6. Click **Create access key** button. 
 7. Save **Access key ID** and **Secret access key** values. You may need to click the **Show** link to fully reveal the secret key. 
 8. Once you provide the access and secret keys to berlioz command line make sure you discard the keys. 


## provider create gcp


Links GCP account to Berlioz.

You can link as many AWS accounts as needed. The "kind" argument should be "aws".

Follow these steps to obtain "key" and "secret": 
 1. Login to GCP https://cloud.google.com/ 
 2. Select your **Project**
 3. Navigate to **IAM & admin** \ **Service accounts** menu. 
 4. Click **Create Service Account** and fill in account details. 
 5. Assign **Kubernetes Engine Admin** role. 
 6. Click **Create Key** button. 
 7. Choose **JSON** key option and download the key file. 
 8. Once you link the key file with Berlioz, you can delete the downloaded key file.


## provider delete


Unlinks cloud provider account.

Any running deployments will not be terminated.

## provider list


Outputs the list of linked providers.

## push


Builds and pushes the images to the cloud.

Executes the [build](#build) command and once the build is complete, pushes the images to the cloud. It is important to note that this command does not deploy the software version. It only makes it available for one click deployment.

To deploy the cluster refer to [run](#run) command.

Just like with the [build](#build) command, this command should be called from the project root directory.

## run


Run the cluster on the cloud.

The name of the deployment definition should be specified.

Optionally a cluster and region can be specified to limit the deployment scope, otherwise all clusters would be deployed to all regions included in the deployment definition. Please note that the changes will be made to the specified deployment only. Any other deployment definition will be unchanged.

The command will preview the changes to be made and trigger deployment process. To monitor the process refer to [status](#status) command.

Also, once the deployment is fully up and running you can access the public endpoints using [endpoints](#endpoints) command.

## signup


Signs up new account with Berlioz.

## status


Displays deployments and their statuses.

## stop


Terminates service deployment from the cloud.

The name of the deployment definition should be specified.

Optionally a cluster and region can be specified to limit the deployment scope, otherwise all clusters across all regions will undeployed. Please note that the changes will be made to the specified deployment only. Any other deployment definition will be unchanged.

The command will preview the changes to be made and trigger deployment process. To monitor the process refer to [status](#status) command.

## ui


Runs interactive UI

## validate


Validates Berliozfile definitions within the project

## wait


Waits for deployment status to be completed.

Commit message:

added deploy command. prettified status and wait commands.

docs/cli.md, after:

[![Analytics](https://ga-beacon.appspot.com/UA-120606268-2/github/berlioz/docs/cli)](https://github.com/igrigorik/ga-beacon)

# Command Line Interface


## build


Builds Docker images for current project.

Should be used from the root directory of the project. Can be used to build images for one or multiple clusters.

The tool will be searching for service definitions in **Berliozfile** files within the current directory. It will then build **Dockerfile** files in the same directory.

```
cluster_one/
    Berliozfile        # Definition of the cluster_one
    service_one/
        Berliozfile    # Definition of the service_one
        Dockerfile
    service_two/
        Berliozfile    # Definition of the service_two
        Dockerfile
```

## change-password


Initiates Berlioz account password reset.

## cluster list


Outputs the list of cluster definitions.

Those are the clusters published using [push](#push) command. Please note that the output of this command does not display clusters that are currently deployed. Refer to [deployment cluster list](#deployment-cluster-list) for see deployed clusters.

## deploy


Deploys applications to the cloud.

This command combines 'berlioz push' and 'berlioz run' commands into one.

## deployment cluster definitions


Outputs the list of deployed clusters.

## deployment clusters


Outputs the list of deployed clusters.

## deployment create


Creates a new deployment definition.

After creating the deployment definition you should use [push](#push) command to publish the cluster, and [run](#run) command to deploy.

Prior to creating a deployment definition, a cloud provider should be linked using [provider create](#provider-create) command.

## deployment delete


Deletes an existing deployment definition.

All running clusters for this definition will be undeployed.

## deployment list


Outputs the list of deployment definitions.

## deployment versions


Outputs the deployment versions.

The result of this command can be used to downgrade/upgrade to a particular version using [run](#run) command.

## endpoint


Outputs publicly exposed service endpoint.

## endpoints


Outputs publicly exposed service endpoints in a tabular format.

## kubectl connect


Configure kubectl to current kubernetes cluster.

## kubectl drain


Changes Kubernetes cluster default node pool size to zero.

## kubectl resize


Changes Kubernetes cluster default node pool size.

## local build-run


Builds and runs the services on a local workstation

This command should be called from the project root directory. This command literally combines [build](#build), [local push](#local-push) and [local run](#local-run) commands.

## local endpoints


Outputs publicly exposed endpoints for local deployment

## local get-configs


Displays dynamic local deployment configuration.

## local invalidate


Restarts stopped docker containers.

## local provider aws activate


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider aws clear


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider aws set


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider gcp activate


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider gcp clear


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider gcp set


Setup AWS account profile name for local deployment native resources.

Berlioz allows use of cloud native resources like DynamoDB and Kinesis. In order to have access to such services even when deploying on a local workstation, we need an access to some AWS account to configure those resources. Specify AWS profile to use for that purpose. Note, that this account does not have to be the one used in other deployments.

## local provider validate


Validates local deployment cloud account.

## local push


Builds and pushes the images to local workstation store.

Executes the [build](#build) command and once the build is complete, pushes the images to the local workstation store. It is important to note that this command does not deploy the cluster locally yet. To deploy the cluster use the [local run](#local-run) command.

Just like with the [build](#build) command, this command should be called from the project root directory.

## local push-run


Builds and runs the services on a local workstation

This command should be called from the project root directory. This command literally combines [build](#build), [local push](#local-push) and [local run](#local-run) commands.

## local run


Run the cluster on a local workstation.

This command runs locally published clusters on a local workstation.

Optionally, a single cluster can be specified to run specified cluster only.

## local scale get


Returns configured number of service instances to deploy on a local workstation.

## local scale set


Sets the number of running instances for a service on a local workstation.

## local stop


Terminates running clusters on a local workstation.

Optionally, a single cluster can be specified to terminate a specified cluster only.

## login


Logs in to Berlioz account.

If you don't already have a Berlioz account refer to [signup](#signup) command to create one.

## logout


Logs out from Berlioz account.

## output-definitions


Outputs Berlioz definitions in current project.

This command displays the contents of "Berliozfile" files in a tabular format.

Should be used from the root directory of the project.

## output-diagram


Renders Berlioz definition diagram

This command displays the contents of "Berliozfile" files in a graphical format.

Should be used from the root directory of the project.

Please not that the tool uses PlantUML and GraphViz for rendering. PlantUML is already packaged with Berlioz. For GraphViz installation please refer to https://graphviz.gitlab.io/download/

## provider create aws


Links cloud provider account to Berlioz.

You can link as many AWS accounts as needed.

Follow these steps to obtain "key" and "secret": 
 1. Login to AWS Account https://console.aws.amazon.com/console/home 
 2. Navigate to **IAM** (i.e. Identity and Access Management) 
 3. Select **Users** Menu. 
 4. Select the admin user or create a new one. 
 5. Select **Security credentials** tab. 
 6. Click **Create access key** button. 
 7. Save **Access key ID** and **Secret access key** values. You may need to click the **Show** link to fully reveal the secret key. 
 8. Once you provide the access and secret keys to berlioz command line make sure you discard the keys. 


## provider create gcp


Links GCP account to Berlioz.

You can link as many AWS accounts as needed. The "kind" argument should be "aws".

Follow these steps to obtain "key" and "secret": 
 1. Login to GCP https://cloud.google.com/ 
 2. Select your **Project**
 3. Navigate to **IAM & admin** \ **Service accounts** menu. 
 4. Click **Create Service Account** and fill in account details. 
 5. Assign **Kubernetes Engine Admin** role. 
 6. Click **Create Key** button. 
 7. Choose **JSON** key option and download the key file. 
 8. Once you link the key file with Berlioz, you can delete the downloaded key file.


## provider delete


Unlinks cloud provider account.

Any running deployments will not be terminated.

## provider list


Outputs the list of linked providers.

## push


Builds and pushes the images to the cloud.

Executes the [build](#build) command and once the build is complete, pushes the images to the cloud. It is important to note that this command does not deploy the software version. It only makes it available for one click deployment.

To deploy the cluster refer to [run](#run) command.

Just like with the [build](#build) command, this command should be called from the project root directory.

## run


Run the cluster on the cloud.

The name of the deployment definition should be specified.

Optionally a cluster and region can be specified to limit the deployment scope, otherwise all clusters would be deployed to all regions included in the deployment definition. Please note that the changes will be made to the specified deployment only. Any other deployment definition will be unchanged.

The command will preview the changes to be made and trigger deployment process. To monitor the process refer to [status](#status) command.

Also, once the deployment is fully up and running you can access the public endpoints using [endpoints](#endpoints) command.

## signup


Signs up new account with Berlioz.

## status


Displays deployments and their statuses.

## stop


Terminates service deployment from the cloud.

The name of the deployment definition should be specified.

Optionally a cluster and region can be specified to limit the deployment scope, otherwise all clusters across all regions will undeployed. Please note that the changes will be made to the specified deployment only. Any other deployment definition will be unchanged.

The command will preview the changes to be made and trigger deployment process. To monitor the process refer to [status](#status) command.

## ui


Runs interactive UI

## validate


Validates Berliozfile definitions within the project

## wait


Waits for deployment status to be completed.
